- Okay, good morning everyone.
Yes, thank you.
And it is still wonderful to see
you all here to talk about all the
changes we've made in Mac OS X Lion.
And it's good to be
back in San Francisco.
My name is Ben Trumbull.
I'm the engineering
manager for Core Data.
And we have a lot to go through today.
Talk about some of the
highlights that we've added in
the last year and a half or so.
And we're going to talk about
some concurrency changes
we've made to Core Data.
Our integration with
Lion's autosave feature.
Ordered relationships.
Some integration support with iCloud.
A new incremental store API to
do custom incremental stores with
your own persistence mechanism.
And then we're going to run
through some highlights of
developer tools changes in Xcode.
So first up, concurrency.
So the NSManageObjectContext is sort of
the root part of the concurrency policy
that Core Data has been providing.
And we've added some new types of
concurrency using NSManageObjectContext.
There's some block-based methods,
and we've also added nested context
support to move changes around.
So to just take a quick step back,
I'd like to talk about a
little bit where we were.
So earlier, in 10.4, 10.5, and 10.6,
we really strongly encouraged
you stick to a thread confinement
model with NSManageObjects.
And here we have a little
diagram where we have a number
of different queue types,
and different blocks running on
those queues are using either
the same ManageObject context,
if they're all on a serial queue,
or between different serial queues,
they're going to have to use a
different ManageObject context.
And if you wanted to use
it with a concurrent queue,
then you're going to have to have
a separate context per block.
So thread confinement,
separate contexts for each thread,
manage objects are all owned
by the thread that owns
their managed object context.
And really the only thing
that was safe to pass around
were the managed object IDs.
So this served us pretty well.
It's a very easy to understand model.
Developers can make it happen
without too much trouble.
It's safe and it's very
efficient for transactions.
We don't get bogged down
in excessively fine-grained
locking or anything like that.
But in response to feedback
from you and our own experience,
it does have some issues, right?
The coordination is left as an exercise
to the client of the framework.
The developer needs to track which
context is associated with which thread,
which thread created which context.
And it does get a little cumbersome
to pass extensive amounts of
unsaved changes between threads.
So,
we spent some time thinking about this,
and thankfully a bunch of other
Mac OS X technologies evolved,
including LibDispatch,
since we first came around.
And so, we made this move to make a
more formal concurrency policy,
where in the Manage
Object Context Initializer,
you declare what kind of concurrency
policy you would like to use
with that particular context.
And so, the new initializer is
init with concurrency type,
and there are three different types.
There's a confinement concurrency type,
a private queue, and a main queue.
So the NSConfinement concurrency
type is really just the name of
what you've been using in the past.
This is what worked from 10.4 to 10.6.
It's just thread confinement.
Managed objects are owned by the
thread or the queue that created them.
And this is the default behavior
if you called the old initializer.
So the private queue concurrency
type is new in 10.7 and iOS 5.
And here, it's basically an inversion of
the thread confinement model.
You can only call the
Managed Object Context
API on its own private queue,
and the way you do that is by
passing a block to the context with
a new method called performBlock.
And within this block,
you just use the Managed Object Context.
and then there's a main
queue concurrency type,
which has got a very similar requirement,
except the queue is
always the main queue.
And what this allows to happen
is the UI and controller classes
are all bound to the main thread,
like all of Cocoa bindings,
can work with the managed
object context directly.
They don't have to worry
about new API issues.
But other threads in the background
can easily pass results to
these managed object contexts,
just as if they were using the
private queue concurrency type.
They'd call perform block,
and that ends up on the main queue.
And this is very convenient
for receiving results from
background fetching and saving.
So the queue-based concurrency type,
there's the main queue concurrency type,
primarily for integration
controllers in the UI,
and the private queue concurrency type,
which is a little more of an
actor-style inversion of a thread
confinement where the managed object
context owns its own queue and
it handles the scheduling for you.
And then there are two API methods,
performBlock and performBlockInWait.
So, Perform Block is asynchronous.
Core Data considers it to be sort
of the scope of a user event,
a more substantial operation,
and I'll define that
in a couple of slides.
And it includes an auto-release pool.
It doesn't support API reentrancy,
so if you call Perform Block from
within a block,
running on the managed
average of context,
it'll just get added to
the end of the queue,
very similar to the other
queue APIs in Mac OS X.
And it is important to note
that please do not ever throw an
exception outside of Perform Block.
Perform Block and Wait,
as you might imagine, is synchronous.
And it's intended to be a
little lighter-weight operation,
so we don't consider
it to be a full event.
There's no auto-release pool.
And it does support API re-entrancy.
So if you call Perform Block and
Wait from within a block,
running on the managed object context,
it'll execute immediately.
And also, please don't throw exceptions.
So this user event notion.
So Core Data,
particularly for Managed Object Context
running on the main thread,
has a lot of integration with the
main event loop of that application in
response to what the user's been doing.
And this is the part where Core Data's
providing change coalescing,
delete propagation,
integration with the NSUndoManager,
and posting a lot of
the NS notifications,
like NSManageObjectContext
objects did change at the end
of every substantial operation.
So from Core Data's perspective,
technically,
this is in between the time that you
make calls to process pending changes.
And it just so happens that
the main thread has a little
run loop action to always call
process pending changes for you.
But when you call perform block,
we're going to consider that
discrete block to be basically
an event in which you want at the
end to get these notifications and
to get change coalescing to occur.
Just to emphasize,
when you use the private
queue concurrency type,
we really mean it.
The queue is very private.
So please don't grope for the queue.
And if you want to then take results
out of the blocks that you're
executing from within perform block,
you can just call into a dispatch
sync or dispatch async or NS operation
queue at the end of your block and
just capture references to a queue
that you actually own yourself.
Now, you might think that's a little
inconvenient if you're trying
to coordinate a large set of
operations across multiple queues.
But in fact,
there's a nifty little operation that
you can use called dispatch group.
And what this lets you do is coordinate
blocks across multiple different queues.
And the nice thing about this
API is you can actually tell it to
coordinate external events that it
doesn't even necessarily know about.
So you do that by using the dispatch
group enter and dispatch group leave.
And so with perform block,
you can create a dispatch group
and call dispatch group enter for
every block that you want to track.
And then at the end of your worker
block in the managed object context,
you call dispatch group leave.
And then at the end of that,
you've sort of set up the
counting semaphore properly.
And you can just use dispatch group wait
and dispatch group notify to coordinate
across many different queues and blocks.
So once we have all these
different concurrency policies,
we decided to add on
some additional work,
a nested NSManage object context.
And this is to help pass changes
between different contexts.
So you just create a new
context and set its parent,
and the parent can
have multiple children.
And you can do things with them like
you can push changes to the parent and
then have the child context continue on.
So you can do an asynchronous save
in that fashion where the in-memory
changes just get pushed up and then
the child continues on its way.
And the parent context
can save asynchronously.
You can share unsaved changes between
child contexts with the same parent.
So you could do something like
inheriting changes in a detail inspector.
And you can also use it as a
convenience to implement background
fetching and some other tasks.
So the asynchronous save operation
is pretty straightforward.
You just save the child and then ask the
parent context to save asynchronously.
And this is what the UI Manage document
in iOS 5 is actually doing right now
to implement asynchronous saving.
And the code looks kind of like this.
The parent context has
to adopt a queue type,
and then the child
context sets its parent.
The child saves synchronously,
and that will push its changes
up in memory one level.
And then you ask the parent context
to perform a block asynchronously to
save the changes out to your store.
And then sharing unsaved
changes is pretty trivial.
You basically push those
changes up into the parent.
They're in memory.
They don't do I/O to save
that out to the store.
And you pull the changes
down in another peer context.
And for inheriting changes,
this just works naturally for all
the child contexts you create.
They always inherit the
changes from their parents.
So any saves are gonna push those
changes up one level into the parent,
and fetching will incorporate all
the unsaved changes in that parent.
And then you can do some things like,
in your detail inspector,
if you have a cancel model,
you can just throw away the
child context because its changes
never actually got committed.
And some important things to remember.
Saving is only going to push
changes up one level if you
create a very deeply nested tree.
And fetching is going to pull all
the data down from the database to
make sure that the child sees the
latest changes from everywhere.
And then object with ID and the
other faulting methods are going to
pull in the fewest levels necessary,
so they'll stop as soon
as they find cached data.
And parent contexts must always
adopt one of the queue types.
They can't use thread confinement
since we kind of expect that
they're going to be called from
multiple different threads.
So that kind of wraps up the concurrency,
and we'll talk a little more now
about our autosave integration.
There have been a lot of changes
to the NSPERS system document.
And so for Lion's autosave,
just a quick overview
of why we're doing this,
users had to explicitly
save and save regularly,
and not necessarily save
at very convenient times,
titling their documents and such.
So these documents save
automatically in place,
and there's UI to lock versions
and browse versions and a bunch of
different support on NSDocument.
And so what we've done in Core Data is
improve NSPersistentDocument
to play with these new APIs.
So even untitled documents
are going to get saved,
and these save in place,
so incremental operations
against the SQLite store will
behave kind of as you'd expect.
So we're not creating a whole
new document every time you save,
just as we did in the past.
It is opt-in.
So on your NS persistent
document subclass,
you'll need to implement
autosaves in place.
And this is the same
as the NS document API.
So to clarify the different
types of autosaving,
because in the past NSPersistent
Document didn't support autosave on 10.6.
NSPersistent Document still doesn't
support the old-style autosave operation,
and perhaps the easiest way to
think about it is the current
Lion autosaving is autosaving in place,
and the old-style autosaving is
creating sort of automatic backup files,
sort of a little more along the lines of
Emacs tilde files and stuff like that.
And so NSPersistent Document will
only autosave in place.
And if you decide to override the
right methods declared on NSDocument,
on your NSPerson document subclass,
then we do encourage you
to always call super.
There's quite a bit of tricky handling
to get autosaving to work with
SQLite and all those different moving
pieces with the versions browser.
So we do recommend you start
considering document file wrappers.
There are a couple of
known issues with this,
but by and large,
going forward for iCloud syncing
and external binary data,
and just in general for yourselves,
to put in caches for QuickLooks
or Spotlight or anything else,
the document file wrapper
is really quite handy.
So there's sample code for using file
wrappers with Core Data documents,
and it overrides the read and write
methods on its persistent document.
There is a new Lion autosave
example coming very soon now.
Unfortunately,
that wasn't quite finished yet,
but we should expect to be publishing
that in the next week or two.
So the NS persistent documents now,
if you override the method,
will automatically save in place,
and they support the versions
browser that NS documents providing.
So pretty simple to enable,
and we are encouraging people to consider
using file wrappers in the future.
So next up, ordered relationships.
So before we get into talking too
much about ordered relationships,
we would like to highlight
sort of two different patterns
that we've seen developers use.
There's a sorting pattern,
and then there's an
actual ordering pattern.
So the sorting pattern,
you have a bunch of data,
and you typically show it to the user
sorted by different attribute values.
And there's not necessarily any
intrinsic ordering in the data itself.
So this here is the view is imposing sort
of a user preference on the ordering,
and you can change it pretty easily.
On the other hand,
you can also have arbitrary
ordering for lists,
like a shopping list, a recipe, steps,
or even a list in a build inspector
in Xcode or something like that.
And here the ordering
is actually important.
You can't just resort things and
end up with something sensible.
And it's typically
controlled by the user.
So the user is changing
the positions of things.
So ordered relationships are really
intended to solve the second problem
for sort of user-imposed ordering.
And it assigns positions in
the too many relationships.
It's providing back an NSOrderedSet,
which is a new collection
class in Foundation.
So the NSOrderedSet behaves
a lot like an array.
It is, however,
not a subclass of an array,
and this is important because
it does not allow duplicates.
So NSArrays can have duplicated elements,
and NSOrderedSets,
while they have positions,
each item is only going
to be in the set once.
And we'd like to call out that
the order relationships are more
expensive for maintaining both
the positioning and the unicking.
So here in Xcode,
it's pretty simple to enable
them in the Xcode 4 inspector.
Once you have selected a relationship
property and you go into the detail
inspector with a little cylinder cut out,
you just select arrange.
So that's pretty easy.
So working with the
ordered relationships,
you can generate accessors
for them in Xcode 4.
And there's also the immutable ordered
set value for key method you can do
to get back a mutable proxy that's
KBO compliant to make mutations
to your ordered relationships.
and in a moment, currently,
the dynamically generated KVC accessors
on this managed object are not quite
available yet for ordered relationships.
So for observing changes,
we'd just like to call out that
NSOrderedSet is a little bit
different from both NSArray and NSSet.
So what you're going to see is
you're going to get back the
same KVO observing method call,
but you're going to get back different
change kinds than you would from
either an NSSet or an NSArray.
So there'll be insertions and removals
as opposed to unions and minuses.
And while you don't necessarily
have to worry too much about this,
we would like to highlight sort
of one of the reasons why if you
have sorted data as opposed to
arbitrarily user-ordered data,
that you'd probably be better off using
an unordered set where it makes sense.
And that's because we actually have to
do quite a bit of work to do merging
between changes in different contexts
for these ordered relationships.
So we do our best to preserve
the relative ordering,
but that can be pretty difficult
to divine the user's intention.
So the merging of positions
is particularly expensive.
Migration,
so you can migrate back using lightweight
migration between ordered and unordered.
Lightweight migration will just
assign an ordering initially,
that's arbitrary.
So if you do want to upgrade
to using ordered relationships,
you can just impose a post-processing
step after you've added the store with a
lightweight migration phase to assign an
ordering based on some other criteria.
So in summary,
these are new ordered relationships,
and we encourage them
from arbitrary ordering,
particularly if you are going
to be managing an ordering
column yourself anyway.
So that's a great place to use them.
And they're using a new
NSOrderedSet collection from Foundation.
And just keep in mind that the
position merging is going to be a
little more expensive than the regular
unordered too many relationships.
So you should use sorted
unordered relationships where
it makes sense in the UI.
And now I'd like to bring up
Melissa Turner to talk about our iCloud
integration and the rest of the session.
[Transcript missing]
You'll get per-conflict record,
per-record conflict resolution,
the same as you would using two
parallel managed object contexts
and stacks in a single process.
We only sync deltas over the network,
so you don't have to worry about the
bandwidth imposition your application
is putting on your customers.
We do asynchronous imports,
so your application is going to continue
to be responsive while your user,
while data is being
imported in the background.
And we provide a three-way merge that
tries to preserve the intent of changes
that were made on different devices,
so that your final object
The final truth of the object
living in the cloud is what your
user will expect rather than
what they most recently changed.
What does that really mean?
Well, say I have a record.
For the sake of easy slide reading,
it's a contact named John Doe with an
address john@somestrangesymbol.com.
And I go off on vacation and I talk to
somebody who knows John and he says,
"Well, did you know he's decided
to change his name?
He's now Johnny." You go in
and change that on your device.
You talk to somebody
else later and they say,
oh yeah,
he didn't just change his first name,
he changed his last name.
He's now Johnny Appleseed.
And at the same time, back at home,
my partner is off, and they're talking to
somebody about the same person.
And they get told, oh yeah,
did you hear he changed
his email address?
It's now johnny at
strange symbol dot com.
What you might expect is that when
you're trying to merge all of these
things together through the cloud,
you're actually going to
end up with either John Doe,
johnny at strange symbol dot com,
or Johnny Appleseed,
john at strange symbol dot com.
But that's not what we do.
We actually look at each of the
chain sets in chronological order,
and we apply just the diffs
to the previous object so that
we'll actually combine those,
and in the end you'll end
up with Johnny Appleseed,
johnny at strange symbol dot com.
What do you have to do to get all this?
Not a lot.
You have to add some options to
the options dictionary when you're
adding your persistent store to
the persistent store coordinator.
And you need to respond to an
import notification when we
pull data out of the cloud.
What do we do?
Well, we do a lot, actually.
If you've heard the class
names NSFileCoordinator,
NSFilePresenter, or NSMetadataQuery,
we take care of all of the
integration with those for you.
We also take care of exporting
changes when they're made in your
application and importing changes
that have been made in other
devices that are part of your cloud.
And at this point,
I'm going to try and do a demo and
hope the demo gods smile on me.
So I have here an application.
It's a little users and groups thing.
And I'm going to come over
here and create a user.
Call it Beach Ball,
because I'm not creative on stage.
And I'm going to give it a picture.
I'm going to add it to the water group.
And then I'm going to save.
And I'm going to come over
to my other computer here.
I'm going to launch the application.
And we can see that that
new user was created.
And at this point, you're probably going,
yeah, you faked that.
And a week ago,
you might have been right.
But instead,
I'm actually going to come over here
and I'm going to add a new group.
I'm going to call it Gingerbread now.
I'm going to call it green.
I think I'm going to
give it the color green.
I'm going to move flippers
into the green group.
And I'm going to save.
Then I'm going to come
back to my first computer.
And we can see that Flippers,
I now have a green group,
and that Flippers is
actually in that green group.
It all worked.
The demo gods liked me.
There's something about building
applications and doing demos
on stage that just guarantees
that everything will go wrong.
But what just happened there?
So I had one computer and I created
some data on it and I saved my
application and that data was
exported and pushed into the cloud.
My other application came
up and asked the cloud,
is there any new data
that I need to know about?
And there was,
so it was pulled down and integrated
into the store on that local system.
And then I made some more changes.
and saved, and those were pushed
back into the cloud.
And the other computer was notified that,
hey,
there's new changes for that application,
and pulled them down.
And we did all this with
three pieces of API,
as far as you're concerned.
Two store options,
NSPersistentStoreUbiquitousContentNameKey
and
NSPersistentStoreUbiquitousContentURLKey,
and one notification telling
the application that it's time
to update the user interface.
And as persistent store ubiquitous
content name key is kind of
the identifier for your store.
Many of you know that a
Core Data application can often have
multiple stores for many reasons.
I mean, often there'll be a set of
data that was shipped with
the application in one store,
and then all of the user data
was created in a separate store.
And there's no really good way
of identifying these stores.
I mean, the name can be, well,
a file can be a file name.
Many different applications
can use the same file name.
Paths differ between Mac OS and iOS.
So we need a way to allow you
to specify that the data in this
store is from my application,
and it should be in all instances
of my application everywhere.
And that's the persistent store
ubiquitous content name key.
can set any value you'd like as
long as it's file system compatible,
no slashes or colons.
And that's all you need to do to say
this store is this store everywhere.
You can also set an NS Persistent
Store ubiquitous content URL key.
This is optional.
By default,
if you've got a single store in your
application and you have the same
bundle identifier on all platforms
that you want to sync data between,
you can just use the default.
If you've got a different bundle
identifier between Mac and iOS,
then you'll need to provide your own
identifier that we can use to say,
OK, this iPhone app and this
Mac app are really talking to
the same data off in the cloud.
And this is where you'll find it.
You'll also need to set a
ubiquitous content URL key if
you're doing document syncing.
This should be treated
as an opaque package.
We put stuff in there.
Don't poke at it.
You're likely to break something.
And we reserve the right to
change it at any future point.
How do we get,
how do you get a persistent
store ubiquitous content URL key?
Like I said, it defaults to the
main bundle identifier.
And if you ask NS file manager
for the URL for ubiquity container
ID for your bundle identifier,
it will provide you for URL.
And if you want to provide
a custom persistent store
ubiquitous content URL key,
you'll simply append stuff onto the end
of that URL according to the rules that
are set out by the document syncing APIs,
the document in the cloud APIs.
The NS Persistent Store did import
Ubiquitous Content Changes notification.
This is very much like the NS Persistent
Store did save notification.
It has an object,
which is the persistent store
coordinator that has the store mounted.
If you have multiple persistent store
coordinators in your application,
which have the same store mounted,
you'll get a notification for
each persistent store coordinator.
User info for that persistent
store coordinator has a dictionary
containing the collections of inserted,
updated, and deleted objects that
you need to know about.
Unlike the NS Persistent
Store did save notification,
these are collections of
managed object IDs instead of
collections of managed objects.
How do you respond to an import?
Well,
in pretty much the same way as you do,
and as Managed Object Context
did save notification.
You'll refresh your unchanged
objects so that the next time
the user tries to access them,
they'll pull the new data from the store.
And you'll merge in changes for
all of the objects that have been
changed in the local context.
Well, this is really great for
shoebox applications,
but what about NS-Persistent
Document-based applications?
Well, it's going to be easiest if you
sync documents as file wrappers
rather than as single files.
There's lots of reasons for
that that I won't get into here.
You'll use the ubiquitous store
options when you add the store
for the persistent document.
And one thing you should consider is
you don't want to sync the SQLite file.
You'll provide us with a ubiquitous
URL path pointing to a location
inside the document file wrapper,
and we'll pull all of the stuff that
needs to go into the cloud there.
But the SQLite file itself
doesn't need to go in the cloud,
because we'll simply apply the
diffs that have been made on other
devices to the existing store.
So you can tell us that you
don't want the store in the cloud
by including .nosync somewhere
in the SQLite store file path.
If you don't want to use
NS-Persistent Document but you
still want to use Core Data,
well, there's a couple of alternatives.
Atomic stores can actually
be synced as whole files.
SQLite shouldn't be,
but the atomic stores, well,
they have always been last-writer wins.
And that would be no
different in the iCloud case.
In this case,
you'll want to use the NS-FileVersion
APIs for resolving conflicts between
changes made on different devices.
Some good ideas?
Well, remember to respond to
the import notification.
This is the only way you're
going to get your UI updates.
Remember to use an appropriate merge
policy in your context to make sure
that data that your user is editing
locally is merged in correctly with
data that was changed in the cloud.
Anticipate bandwidth constraints.
Try not to thrash too hard.
Don't save every time somebody
changes a character and a string.
Wait until they're done.
And use no sync for all of the files
that you're saving that you don't
actually want to push into the cloud.
And now I'm on to NS Incremental Store.
So, why do you care?
I suspect some of you don't,
but a lot of you, since we first shipped,
Core Data in Mac OS X Tiger, 10.4 Tiger,
have been saying, "Well,
all of the store types
you're providing are great,
but I want to talk to something
else." And that set of something
else has grown over time.
And it's really hard for
us to decide which ones are
worth expending resources on,
and what's better for us to spend
time doing iCloud integration,
because that's something
that's a lot harder to do.
So we're giving you an incremental
store API that lets you talk
to your data source in whatever
language you would like to talk,
in its own language.
It's very much like the SQL store.
It allows you to only load the
data that you actually need.
It supports faulting,
so you can only load the data
you need when you need it.
And it supports flushing unused
data once your user's done with it.
How does it work?
For those of you who are interested
in implementing a incremental store,
you want to remember this slide,
because it covers everything
you're going to need to know
about implementing a store,
what methods are called,
in what order they're called.
So in the beginning,
your application launches and a
persistent store coordinator is created.
And you tell it to add a persistent store
of type your incremental store type.
The store goes off,
the coordinator goes off and creates
an instance of that store and tells it,
load your metadata.
And the store hands the metadata back
to the persistent store coordinator,
which looks at it and determines
whether or not the contents of
that store are compatible with the
model that was used to initialize
the persistent store coordinator.
This is just like adding any other store.
And if that's okay, the model,
the entity version hashes
in both places match,
the coordinator mounts the store.
At some point, somebody adds a context,
and now you have a full
usable Core Data stack.
And now your user is going
to want to look at data.
So your application will
create an NSFetchRequest.
And at that point,
an executeFetchRequest is called
on the managed object context.
and that gets sent down to your store
as execute request with context error.
This is your store's cue to go
off and figure out which objects
the user is actually requesting.
And you'll create shells for those
objects and return them to the context.
As I said,
these are likely to come back as faults,
or they can come back
as faults if you choose,
and at some point,
value for key is going to be
called on one of those faults.
At this point, Core Data will send your
store a new message,
new values for object with
ID with context error.
And this is essentially saying, "Okay,
store, user's interested in this object.
Go off and get me the property
values for it." If what you're trying
to fire is a relationship fault,
we'll actually send new values
for relationship for object
with ID with context error.
It says, "The user's trying to
follow this relationship.
Get me the object or objects
that are at the other end."
So your user goes off and edits things,
inserts a few objects,
deletes a few objects,
changes some stuff,
and then they want to save.
And at this point,
Your application will call save
on the managed object context,
and the managed object context will
create a save request and pass that
down to the store in two stages.
First, we'll go through and look
at all the inserted objects,
and we'll tell your store to
obtain permanent IDs for the
objects that have been created.
At this point,
your store needs to figure out what
permanent keys are going to be assigned
to those objects and send them back
to Core Data so we can actually connect
all the relationships appropriately.
We then tell your store to execute
requests with context error,
and in this case, it's a save request.
And the save request contains collections
of objects that were inserted,
updated, and deleted,
and you'll need to take those objects
and push them to your store in whatever
language your store likes to talk,
or your data source likes to talk.
There is one other piece,
and that's the NSIncrementalStore node.
Your store may talk JSON,
it may talk SQL,
it may talk something else.
And Core Data can't understand
all of those things,
so you'll need to put the data
in a format that Core Data can
actually understand.
And this is done by creating an
instance of NSIncrementalStoreNode.
You initialize it with the object ID for
the object that this data represents,
and with a dictionary containing
key to property value mappings.
And at this point, it's a black box.
You can ask it for its object ID and for
the value for the property description,
but your data is now in a format
that Core Data can understand.
And that's all there is to it.
Sounds so easy, doesn't it?
I talked about method execute
request with context error,
which leads me into talking
about NSPersistentStoreRequest.
This is a new base class we've added
that basically uses the command pattern
for Core Data to talk to your store.
We've added a new class,
NSSaveChangesRequest.
This contains all of the
information about objects that
have changes in the context that
need to be pushed to your store.
We reparented NSFetchRequest,
so it's now a subclass of
NSPersistentStoreRequest.
Your execute request method
will need to switch on these.
And if it's a fetch request, well,
you'll need to figure out
what data your user wants.
There's two types of
flags on NSFetchRequest.
There's flags that affect the content
of the array that's being returned.
Flags that determine whether what
you're returning is an NSManagedObject,
whether it's NSManagedObjectID,
or whether it's a dictionary.
Or whether it's just the number
of objects that are being
returned for account request.
There's flags that affect performance.
This is stuff like whether you
should return faults or fully
populated managed objects,
whether relationship
prefetching should be done.
If you're providing a store that
you expect other people to use,
you're providing a store to clients,
You must implement all of the
flags that affect the results of.
and I are going to talk about the new
features of the new Mac OS X Lion.
So, let's get started.
So, let's talk about the new features
of the new Mac OS X Lion.
We provide an API that allows you to
map between primary keys and object IDs.
It's the same API that we
shipped with NS Atomic Store.
And when you're returning
values for fetch request,
you should get the object,
the managed objects,
by asking the context that was passed
to the second parameter with context
for an object with a given ID.
That will return a fault.
There is no SQL generator
included in this.
We're targeting this
more at web services,
but you can use it to
build anything you'd like.
And feel free to send us pointers,
because we're really interested
in seeing what you do with this.
We suggest, and this is just because
we've gone through it,
that you consider supporting
only a set of canned queries.
Pick a defined set of predicates
that can be used to access the data
you think your user is going to be
interested in and support those rather
than trying to build something that can
and I are here to share a few tips on
how to use the latest version of the NAS.
We will
Some general design tips.
In much the same way we
suggest you use canned queries,
we suggest that you design your
store to talk to a specific schema.
When you sit down and
start doing a design,
it's really easy to say, "Well,
I want to build a store that
will talk to my data source,
but all possible versions of my
data source." Therein lies madness.
Design your store to talk to the specific
current version of your schema and worry
about the future when it gets there.
Make it a decent design
that's reasonably flexible,
but it's going to be a lot easier
to concentrate on deciphering
the data you have rather than
any possible future set of data.
Try and remember to
balance I/O and memory.
You're going to have real problems
if you're on an I/OS device,
and every time you fire a fault,
you hit the network.
That's really expensive.
People are going to be upset because
there's going to be a lot of delay.
Consider pulling data in in
batches and caching it locally.
And as I said,
this is sort of really designed
for talking to web services,
although you can use it for everything.
Even if you're talking
to an Oracle database,
it's usually best to go
through a web service first.
And now I'm on to the developer tools.
You've probably seen at this point
that we've got a new version of Xcode.
It's got a lot of nifty features,
particularly in the Core Data world.
There's a new UI.
We have support for optimized models,
readable diffable models,
and scalar accessors.
For those of you who are
familiar with the diagram view,
it's still there,
but we've also added a new table view.
And this allows you to edit your model,
your entities in a
slightly different way.
On the top left, you can see,
in the center you'll see the table
that contains all of the properties
that are on a given entity.
The top left,
you'll see the list of entities,
fetch requests, and configurations that
appear in your model.
On the bottom left,
you'll see the button that
allows you to add entities,
fetch requests, and configurations.
On the bottom right,
you can switch between editor
styles between the table
view and the diagram view.
This is where you add attributes,
relationships, and fetch properties.
And on the top left,
we've got the detail inspector.
This is pretty much the same
thing you had in the top right on,
Xcode 3.
Optimized models, what are they?
Well,
they're a way that Core Data encodes
your model format that's smaller and
faster loading than the previous version.
You'll get this automatically if you're
using versioned models in Xcode 4.
It lives in parallel with
the versioned models.
You don't need to do
anything to pick it up.
We've also added
human-readable Xcode 4 models.
I won't say user-readable because
no user should have to read these.
This is also automatic in Xcode 4
and will be a transparent upgrade
from the old format if you decide
that you want to use Xcode 4 models.
They're XML based and they're perfectly
compatible with your favorite diff tool.
How do you get them?
You go in and set in the Core Data model
inspector in its file inspector the
minimum supported version to Xcode 4.1.
We've added support for
scalar accessors in Core Data,
and this is accessed, again,
through Xcode.
When you're creating your accessors,
there's a checkbox on the wizard
that walks you through it that
lets you specify that you want
your accessor methods to return
scalars instead of NSValue classes.
We've added support for Arc.
This makes memory management
easier by avoiding the need to
implement or call retain or release.
It's opt-in per project,
and new project templates
enable it by default.
It's opt-out per file,
and if you're interested,
we highly recommend you go see
the session or watch it on iTunes.
We've added external binary data.
For many years,
we've gotten up on stage and told
you that you really should consider
storing things like movies or large
pictures outside the database.
We keep saying this,
and we finally decided to
make it easy for you to do.
So if you've got a binary attribute
that you know is going to be
storing large pieces of data,
you can go into the property
inspector for that attribute,
and you can select
allows external storage.
And what this will do is
tell Core Data that this
is a really big thing,
maybe you should consider
putting it outside the store.
For stores that support it,
and the SQLite store does,
we will look at your data blob,
and if it's over a certain size,
we'll store it out beside
the store instead of storing
it inside the SQL store.
And this really helps search performance,
because it helps localize the references
when you're doing a table scan.
Vetted support for compound indices.
This is an index across multiple
columns in a SQLite database.
Why do you care?
This helps, again, speed up searching.
How do you add them?
Well,
On the Entity Inspector,
we have a new field that allows
you to enter comma-separated
lists of property names.
We'll turn those into compound indices.
So we've added a whole bunch of new
features that we hope will make your life
developing with Core Data a lot easier.
We've added concurrency.
New block-based concurrency models,
block-based,
queue-based concurrency models,
and nested managed object context
to help you push and pull data
that you only want to edit locally.
We've added support for autosave.
We've added ordered relationships.
I know you've been asking
for those since Tiger.
I've been dealing with bugs since Tiger.
We've added support for iCloud,
and we really hope that you
can use this to make your
application data appear everywhere.
This is something that is so exciting.
It's really cool.
We've added support
for incremental stores.
Talk to your data store in
whatever language you'd like.
and use Core Data to manage it.
And we took you on a quick trip
through what's been added to
the developer tools in Xcode 4.
And this is where I show you the same
slide I show you every year that says
if you find a problem with Core Data,
if you find a bug or there's something
you wish it would do or there's
a performance issue or whatever,
we can't read your minds,
please file bugs, let us know.
We'll fix bugs faster if there's steps
to reproduce in a sample project,
but sometimes just knowing that there's
a problem out there is good enough.
For more information,
you can always email
Mike Jurowicz with feedback.
He listens.
There's a lot of documentation out there
if you're trying to learn Core Data,
and there's more all the time.
And we do lurk on the
Apple Developer Forums,
so that's another good
way of providing feedback.
This is a list of related sessions.
Unfortunately, they're all in the past,
so you'll have to catch them
when they show up on iTunes.
This is the iCloud Storage overview,
the autosave inversions overview,
taking advantage of file coordination
to understand just how much
Core Data saves you work when
you're using our iCloud integration,
and the introduction to Arc.
And we're done.
Thank you very much for coming.